---
layout: post
title:      "What you see"
date:       2017-12-27 21:05:38 +0000
permalink:  what_you_see
---


I learned HTML fundamentals way back in 1996. That's right, my HTML knowledge may be older than some peoples' actual age!

I hung around in and worked in the college residential computer labs and tinkered with whatever other people were tinkering with. Somewhere along the line, after Netscape became a thing, I found a WYSIWYG editor. That was really my entree into anything coding related - a way to do something visible, then examine what code contributed to it looking that way.

I advanced to the point where I could write HTML in a text editor and could clean up bad code generated by Microsoft Word - a skill I used heavily in my graduate assistantship. I spent leisure time around my studies playing with creating websites - I have to say that Geocities allowed you to do a lot more than some CMS' do today!

Up until about 2002, I was quite involved in creating sites - both the layout and the code, and sometimes a Photoshop ornament or 2. I got paid for one site, and another I whipped up to apply for a job, for which I made the final round but went with the company I was ultimately severed from.

I'm writing all this as a reminder to myself as I make another foray into HTML5 - I learned it once and I can do it again. I have Google on my side this time (InfoSeek just wasn't as good!) and plenty of colleagues learning alongside me. I'm very excited to increase my knowledge on this topic!
