---
layout: post
title:      "Beyond JavasScriptmas to JS Rails"
date:       2021-05-25 23:06:43 +0000
permalink:  beyond_javasscriptmas_to_js_rails
---


I missed my chance back in 1995. I was in college and had started to play with WYSIWYG editors (as we called them back then!), building small websites that would look awesomely dated today. I'm still quite proud of the "I love the 80s" page I built that earned me a graduate assistantship in the Office of Institutional Analysis at SUNY UB, especially since graduate assistantships in music were very scarce and filled by former undergrads. But I never tackled JavaScript; for some reason, I had decided it was going to fade away into obscurity. Go ahead - feel free to get a big laugh at my expense, I'm laughing too!!

After losing a long-term job in 2016 and determining to tackle becoming a full-stack developer, I had started to poke at JavaScript in various tutorials and code-alongs. I always thought it was odd that is was recommended as a first language for beginners because I found it terribly difficult to understand! In fact, I ended up learning Python in a very short amount of time in 2017 after I found that it related to data analysis, the first large-scale technology concept I taught myself.

Nevertheless, after I enrolled in Flatiron, I knew JS would be coming, so I tackled more random tutorials and such while not actually applying myself to my Flatiron curriculum (sad trombones here). Because I had spent some time on Codecademy working through their tutorial for JS, when the Scrimba JavaScriptmas challenge arrived in November 2020 and it was promised that beginners would be able to complete the challenge, I decided to give it a try. Every day in December, I worked the challenge, doing the same countless MDN lookups that would later be so fruitful in the Flatiron curriculum, and came up with a working solution for every challenge. To receive my certificate from Scrimba, I had to spin up a blog on how I solved the challenges; I deployed a code-by-numbers static site with my recounting, https://kristenkinnearohlmann.dev/javascriptmas-2020/, and earned my certificate. It's still sitting in my email but I have it for sure!!

I felt like I should have been prepared to tackle JS and the JS-Rails project after this successful challenge but learning always hands you lessons over and above what you think you will gain. I realized I was super at solving logical puzzles, not so super at manipulating the DOM. I could knock out some labs with no issues and others took hours. I knew when I arrived at the project and felt nervous that I had tackled that same feeling before, but there is never a way to be really sure!

Fortunately, I spent plenty of time attending study groups and looking at student and coach code examples. I had a shaky few days at first, then made a real breakthrough by Day 3. Suddenly, I was in the "zen zone", fingers flying over the keyboard, writing up some frontend code, switching to the backend end to weave it together, and clicking through my site to see the results. I did have a fun moment when I realized my models needed to have a slightly different set of relationships but what we learned in the lessons proved true - it was really easy to spin up a Rails API backend, test out the revised model, and implement the changes to my project. I enjoyed expertly adding event listeners to my various pieces of DOM. I panicked at first when I had to wait for some of my content to render when I loaded my site, then laughed when I realized that mean my AJAX functionality was working just the way I would expect it to!

As with every project, I experienced the whole range of emotions, whether I felt like I was speeding ahead or dragging myself through the mud. With each project, it gets a little easier to shoulder those emotions and just start creating. With a single, very full personal month to go to complete my legacy program, I feel prepared to continue to tackle the challenges to get to the final project and a successful graduation.

By the way, if you read this blog and it inspires you and it's before June 30, 2021, send me a message via my GitHub (https://github.com/kristenkinnearohlmann); I took myself off social media as soon as I implemented 3rd party authentication for my Rails project and I don't intend to go back until July 1, 2021. Excelsior!!
